The Federal Reserve, the central bank of the United States,
provides the nation with a safe, flexible, and stable monetary
and financial system. Federal Open Market Committee Monetary Policy Principles
and Practice Policy Implementation Reports Review of Monetary Policy Strategy,
Tools, and Communications Institution Supervision Reports Reporting Forms Supervision &
Regulation Letters Banking Applications & Legal Developments Regulatory Resources Banking
& Data Structure Financial Stability Assessments Financial Stability Coordination &
Actions Reports Regulations & Statutes Payment Policies Reserve Bank Payment
Services & Data Financial Market Utilities & Infrastructures Research, Reports,
& Committees Working Papers and Notes Data, Models and Tools
Bank Assets and Liabilities Bank Structure Data Business Finance Dealer
Financing Terms Exchange Rates and International Data Financial Accounts Household
Finance Industrial Activity Interest Rates Micro Data Reference Manual (MDRM)
Money Stock and Reserve Balances Other Regulations Supervision& Enforcement Community
Development Research& Analysis Consumer Resources August 27, 2020 For release
at 9:10 a.m. EDT Share Following an extensive review that
included numerous public events across the country, the Federal Open
Market Committee (FOMC) on Thursday announced the unanimous approval of
updates to its Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy
Strategy, which articulates its approach to monetary policy and serves
as the foundation for its policy actions. The updates reflect
changes in the economy over the past decade and how
policymakers are taking these changes into account in conducting monetary
policy. The updated statement is also intended to enhance the
transparency, accountability and effectiveness of monetary policy. "The economy is
always evolving, and the FOMC's strategy for achieving its goals
must adapt to meet the new challenges that arise," said
Federal Reserve Chair Jerome H. Powell. "Our revised statement reflects
our appreciation for the benefits of a strong labor market,
particularly for many in low- and moderate-income communities, and that
a robust job market can be sustained without causing an
unwelcome increase in inflation." Among the more significant changes to
the framework document are: The Committee first adopted a framework
statement in 2012. This first public review of the FOMC
framework was announced by Chair Powell in November 2018, and
involved three distinct components. First, the Federal Reserve hosted a
series of 15 Fed Listens events across the country to
engage with employee groups and union members, small business owners,
residents of low- and moderate-income communities, retirees, and others to
hear a wide range of perspectives about how monetary policy
decisions affect their communities. A report summarizing all of those
events is available here: https://www.federalreserve.gov/publications/files/fedlistens-report-20200612.pdf. Second, the Federal Reserve in
June 2019 convened a research conference at which prominent academic
experts addressed economic topics central to the review. That conference
program, links to the conference papers and presentations, and links
to session videos are available here: https://www.federalreserve.gov/conferences/conference-monetary-policy-strategy-tools-communications-20190605.htm. Finally, the Committee
explored the range of issues that were brought to light
during the course of the review in five consecutive meetings
beginning in July 2019. Analytical staff work put together by
teams across the Federal Reserve System provided essential background for
the Committee's discussions. Minutes of those meetings are available here:
https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/fomccalendars.htm and a collection of those papers is available here:
https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/review-of-monetary-policy-strategy-tools-and-communications-system-analytical-work.htm. The FOMC reported it would continue its practice of
considering the Statement of Longer-Run Goals and Policy each January
and that it intends to undertake a public review of
its monetary policy strategy, tools, and communication practices roughly every
5 years. For media inquiries, call 202-452-2955. Board of Governors
of the Federal Reserve System 20th Street and Constitution Avenue
N.W., Washington, DC 20551