The Federal Reserve, the central bank of the United States,
provides the nation with a safe, flexible, and stable monetary
and financial system. Federal Open Market Committee Monetary Policy Principles
and Practice Policy Implementation Reports Review of Monetary Policy Strategy,
Tools, and Communications Institution Supervision Reports Reporting Forms Supervision &
Regulation Letters Banking Applications & Legal Developments Regulatory Resources Banking
& Data Structure Financial Stability Assessments Financial Stability Coordination &
Actions Reports Regulations & Statutes Payment Policies Reserve Bank Payment
Services & Data Financial Market Utilities & Infrastructures Research, Reports,
& Committees Working Papers and Notes Data, Models and Tools
Bank Assets and Liabilities Bank Structure Data Business Finance Dealer
Financing Terms Exchange Rates and International Data Financial Accounts Household
Finance Industrial Activity Interest Rates Micro Data Reference Manual (MDRM)
Money Stock and Reserve Balances Other Regulations Supervision& Enforcement Community
Development Research& Analysis Consumer Resources September 16, 2020 For release
at 2:00 p.m. EDT Share The Federal Reserve is committed
to using its full range of tools to support the
U.S. economy in this challenging time, thereby promoting its maximum
employment and price stability goals. The COVID-19 pandemic is causing
tremendous human and economic hardship across the United States and
around the world. Economic activity and employment have picked up
in recent months but remain well below their levels at
the beginning of the year. Weaker demand and significantly lower
oil prices are holding down consumer price inflation. Overall financial
conditions have improved in recent months, in part reflecting policy
measures to support the economy and the flow of credit
to U.S. households and businesses. The path of the economy
will depend significantly on the course of the virus. The
ongoing public health crisis will continue to weigh on economic
activity, employment, and inflation in the near term, and poses
considerable risks to the economic outlook over the medium term.
The Committee seeks to achieve maximum employment and inflation at
the rate of 2 percent over the longer run. With
inflation running persistently below this longer-run goal, the Committee will
aim to achieve inflation moderately above 2 percent for some
time so that inflation averages 2 percent over time and
longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored at 2 percent. The
Committee expects to maintain an accommodative stance of monetary policy
until these outcomes are achieved. The Committee decided to keep
the target range for the federal funds rate at 0
to 1/4 percent and expects it will be appropriate to
maintain this target range until labor market conditions have reached
levels consistent with the Committee's assessments of maximum employment and
inflation has risen to 2 percent and is on track
to moderately exceed 2 percent for some time. In addition,
over coming months the Federal Reserve will increase its holdings
of Treasury securities and agency mortgage-backed securities at least at
the current pace to sustain smooth market functioning and help
foster accommodative financial conditions, thereby supporting the flow of credit
to households and businesses. In assessing the appropriate stance of
monetary policy, the Committee will continue to monitor the implications
of incoming information for the economic outlook. The Committee would
be prepared to adjust the stance of monetary policy as
appropriate if risks emerge that could impede the attainment of
the Committee's goals. The Committee's assessments will take into account
a wide range of information, including readings on public health,
labor market conditions, inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and financial
and international developments. Voting for the monetary policy action were
Jerome H. Powell, Chair; John C. Williams, Vice Chair; Michelle
W. Bowman; Lael Brainard; Richard H. Clarida; Patrick Harker; Loretta
J. Mester; and Randal K. Quarles. Voting against the action
were Robert S. Kaplan, who expects that it will be
appropriate to maintain the current target range until the Committee
is confident that the economy has weathered recent events and
is on track to achieve its maximum employment and price
stability goals as articulated in its new policy strategy statement,
but prefers that the Committee retain greater policy rate flexibility
beyond that point; and Neel Kashkari, who prefers that the
Committeeindicate that it expects to maintain the current target range
until core inflation has reached 2 percent on a sustained
basis. Implementation Note issued September 16, 2020 Board of Governors
of the Federal Reserve System 20th Street and Constitution Avenue
N.W., Washington, DC 20551