The Federal Reserve, the central bank of the United States,
provides the nation with a safe, flexible, and stable monetary
and financial system. Federal Open Market Committee Monetary Policy Principles
and Practice Policy Implementation Reports Review of Monetary Policy Strategy,
Tools, and Communications Institution Supervision Reports Reporting Forms Supervision &
Regulation Letters Banking Applications & Legal Developments Regulatory Resources Banking
& Data Structure Financial Stability Assessments Financial Stability Coordination &
Actions Reports Regulations & Statutes Payment Policies Reserve Bank Payment
Services & Data Financial Market Utilities & Infrastructures Research, Reports,
& Committees Working Papers and Notes Data, Models and Tools
Bank Assets and Liabilities Bank Structure Data Business Finance Dealer
Financing Terms Exchange Rates and International Data Financial Accounts Household
Finance Industrial Activity Interest Rates Micro Data Reference Manual (MDRM)
Money Stock and Reserve Balances Other Regulations Supervision& Enforcement Community
Development Research& Analysis Consumer Resources February 01, 2023 For release
at 2:00 p.m. EST Share Recent indicators point to modest
growth in spending and production. Job gains have been robust
in recent months, and the unemployment rate has remained low.
Inflation has eased somewhat but remains elevated. Russia's war against
Ukraine is causing tremendous human and economic hardship and is
contributing to elevated global uncertainty. The Committee is highly attentive
to inflation risks. The Committee seeks to achieve maximum employment
and inflation at the rate of 2 percent over the
longer run. In support of these goals, the Committee decided
to raise the target range for the federal funds rate
to 4-1/2 to 4-3/4 percent. The Committee anticipates that ongoing
increases in the target range will be appropriate in order
to attain a stance of monetary policy that is sufficiently
restrictive to return inflation to 2 percent over time. In
determining the extent of future increases in the target range,
the Committee will take into account the cumulative tightening of
monetary policy, the lags with which monetary policy affects economic
activity and inflation, and economic and financial developments. In addition,
the Committee will continue reducing its holdings of Treasury securities
and agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities, as described in
its previously announced plans. The Committee is strongly committed to
returning inflation to its 2 percent objective. In assessing the
appropriate stance of monetary policy, the Committee will continue to
monitor the implications of incoming information for the economic outlook.
The Committee would be prepared to adjust the stance of
monetary policy as appropriate if risks emerge that could impede
the attainment of the Committee's goals. The Committee's assessments will
take into account a wide range of information, including readings
on labor market conditions, inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and
financial and international developments. Voting for the monetary policy action
were Jerome H. Powell, Chair; John C. Williams, Vice Chair;
Michael S. Barr; Michelle W. Bowman; Lael Brainard; Lisa D.
Cook; Austan D. Goolsbee; Patrick Harker; Philip N. Jefferson; Neel
Kashkari; Lorie K. Logan; and Christopher J. Waller. For media
inquiries, please email [emailprotected] or call 202-452-2955. Implementation Note issued
February 1, 2023 Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System 20th Street and Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, DC 20551