The Federal Reserve, the central bank of the United States,
provides the nation with a safe, flexible, and stable monetary
and financial system. Federal Open Market Committee Monetary Policy Principles
and Practice Policy Implementation Reports Review of Monetary Policy Strategy,
Tools, and Communications Institution Supervision Reports Reporting Forms Supervision &
Regulation Letters Banking Applications & Legal Developments Regulatory Resources Banking
& Data Structure Financial Stability Assessments Financial Stability Coordination &
Actions Reports Regulations & Statutes Payment Policies Reserve Bank Payment
Services & Data Financial Market Utilities & Infrastructures Research, Reports,
& Committees Working Papers and Notes Data, Models and Tools
Bank Assets and Liabilities Bank Structure Data Business Finance Dealer
Financing Terms Exchange Rates and International Data Financial Accounts Household
Finance Industrial Activity Interest Rates Micro Data Reference Manual (MDRM)
Money Stock and Reserve Balances Other Regulations Supervision& Enforcement Community
Development Research& Analysis Consumer Resources December 14, 2022 For release
at 2:00 p.m. EST Share Recent indicators point to modest
growth in spending and production. Job gains have been robust
in recent months, and the unemployment rate has remained low.
Inflation remains elevated, reflecting supply and demand imbalances related to
the pandemic, higher food and energy prices, and broader price
pressures. Russia's war against Ukraine is causing tremendous human and
economic hardship. The war and related events are contributing to
upward pressure on inflation and are weighing on global economic
activity. The Committee is highly attentive to inflation risks. The
Committee seeks to achieve maximum employment and inflation at the
rate of 2 percent over the longer run. In support
of these goals, the Committee decided to raise the target
range for the federal funds rate to 4-1/4 to 4-1/2
percent. The Committee anticipates that ongoing increases in the target
range will be appropriate in order to attain a stance
of monetary policy that is sufficiently restrictive to return inflation
to 2 percent over time. In determining the pace of
future increases in the target range, the Committee will take
into account the cumulative tightening of monetary policy, the lags
with which monetary policy affects economic activity and inflation, and
economic and financial developments. In addition, the Committee will continue
reducing its holdings of Treasury securities and agency debt and
agency mortgage-backed securities, as described in the Plans for Reducing
the Size of the Federal Reserve's Balance Sheet that were
issued in May. The Committee is strongly committed to returning
inflation to its 2 percent objective. In assessing the appropriate
stance of monetary policy, the Committee will continue to monitor
the implications of incoming information for the economic outlook. The
Committee would be prepared to adjust the stance of monetary
policy as appropriate if risks emerge that could impede the
attainment of the Committee's goals. The Committee's assessments will take
into account a wide range of information, including readings on
public health, labor market conditions, inflation pressures and inflation expectations,
and financial and international developments. Voting for the monetary policy
action were Jerome H. Powell, Chair; John C. Williams, Vice
Chair; Michael S. Barr; Michelle W. Bowman; Lael Brainard; James
Bullard; Susan M. Collins; Lisa D. Cook; Esther L. George;
Philip N. Jefferson; Loretta J. Mester; and Christopher J. Waller.
For media inquiries, please email [emailprotected] or call 202-452-2955. Implementation
Note issued December 14, 2022 Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System 20th Street and Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington,
DC 20551