The Federal Reserve, the central bank of the United States,
provides the nation with a safe, flexible, and stable monetary
and financial system. Federal Open Market Committee Monetary Policy Principles
and Practice Policy Implementation Reports Review of Monetary Policy Strategy,
Tools, and Communications Institution Supervision Reports Reporting Forms Supervision &
Regulation Letters Banking Applications & Legal Developments Regulatory Resources Banking
& Data Structure Financial Stability Assessments Financial Stability Coordination &
Actions Reports Regulations & Statutes Payment Policies Reserve Bank Payment
Services & Data Financial Market Utilities & Infrastructures Research, Reports,
& Committees Working Papers and Notes Data, Models and Tools
Bank Assets and Liabilities Bank Structure Data Business Finance Dealer
Financing Terms Exchange Rates and International Data Financial Accounts Household
Finance Industrial Activity Interest Rates Micro Data Reference Manual (MDRM)
Money Stock and Reserve Balances Other Regulations Supervision& Enforcement Community
Development Research& Analysis Consumer Resources March 16, 2022 For release
at 2:00 p.m. EDT Share Indicators of economic activity and
employment have continued to strengthen. Job gains have been strong
in recent months, and the unemployment rate has declined substantially.
Inflation remains elevated, reflecting supply and demand imbalances related to
the pandemic, higher energy prices, and broader price pressures. The
invasion of Ukraine by Russia is causing tremendous human and
economic hardship. The implications for the U.S. economy are highly
uncertain, but in the near term the invasion and related
events are likely to create additional upward pressure on inflation
and weigh on economic activity. The Committee seeks to achieve
maximum employment and inflation at the rate of 2 percent
over the longer run. With appropriate firming in the stance
of monetary policy, the Committee expects inflation to return to
its 2 percent objective and the labor market to remain
strong. In support of these goals, the Committee decided to
raise the target range for the federal funds rate to
1/4 to 1/2 percent and anticipates that ongoing increases in
the target range will be appropriate. In addition, the Committee
expects to begin reducing its holdings of Treasury securities and
agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities at a coming meeting.
In assessing the appropriate stance of monetary policy, the Committee
will continue to monitor the implications of incoming information for
the economic outlook. The Committee would be prepared to adjust
the stance of monetary policy as appropriate if risks emerge
that could impede the attainment of the Committee's goals. The
Committee's assessments will take into account a wide range of
information, including readings on public health, labor market conditions, inflation
pressures and inflation expectations, and financial and international developments. Voting
for the monetary policy action were Jerome H. Powell, Chair;
John C. Williams, Vice Chair; Michelle W. Bowman; Lael Brainard;
Esther L. George; Patrick Harker; Loretta J. Mester; and Christopher
J. Waller. Voting against this action was James Bullard, who
preferred at this meeting to raise the target range for
the federal funds rate by 0.5 percentage point to 1/2
to 3/4 percent. Patrick Harker voted as an alternate member
at this meeting. Implementation Note issued March 16, 2022 Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 20th Street and
Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, DC 20551